# NYC-Crime_Map

For my dataset, I decided to visualize NYC shootings in 2022 committed by people between the ages of 25 and 44. I thought this information would be interesting to display as shootings have been going on for years now and this could help bring awareness on the seriousness of gun control. Before actually coding anything, I spent many hours trying to understand the code template as best as I could so that I could modify it in the best way I envisioned. I ended up creating multiple filters that users could modify if they desired. First, I kept the checkbox provided by the template and changed it to show all the shootings that resulted in murders. In the dataset I found, there was a column that showed whether or not the shooting was the cause of a murder and I wanted to have this in my visualization. So, I coded it so that if the checkbox was checked, the cell would be checked to see if there was an “N” in the cell. If the “N” was present, that data would be returned as false and it would not be shown if the user wanted to only see murders. Next, I changed the info of each circle on the map when clicked to show the time and date of shooting as well as if it was a murder or not. After this, I filtered each piece of data by month. This involved a lot of work in excel as the dataset gave me the full date while I only wanted the month. So, I used a “textbefore” function and just filtered out the month by pulling the text before the first “/” in the date provided. I then added options for the users to view all months or a specific month. It was interesting to see this information and if I had more time, I would try to see if I could implement how many shootings occurred each month so I could see which months were the most or least active. After this, I focused on the time range. For every 3 hour interval in a day, I gave a different color. So, users would see, by default, all the shootings colored differently based on their time range. I also included the option for users to make all circles blue. Finally, the last and most difficult feature I included was the filter by hour range. This definitely took me the most time as I had to assign each time a different hour range in Excel and it resulted in an extremely long Excel function that I had to create. After this, I struggled for hours trying to put this time range filter on top of the month filter. It ended up working in the end but with a bug that I am unsure on how to fix. The filter by month works well, however, if you filter by time, you have to change some other filter to actually load the time filter. For example, if I want to show data from 3AM-5:59AM, I would have to select that in the time filter options. However, when clicking it, you would see nothing would change. So, to actually show the time data, I would need to either change the month filter, the murder filter, or just change the color. I found changing the color was the best way since it wouldn’t affect whether or not the circles were hidden. As for the appearance, I felt I spent so much time on the coding aspect, that I opted for keeping the visuals of the map the same. The template given already has that gloomy coloring that I was planning on going for anyway. Overall, I really tried my best on this assignment and wish I could have figured out the bug. Regardless, I am satisfied with what I ended up with and hope to personally come back to this project in the future as I found this really interesting to visualize.
